Source text: https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2021/10/top-emerging-technologies-10-years/

Summary:
[1] yet, many of these developments either happened behind closed doors in research laboratories and private companies or became so quickly ingrained in our daily lives that they often went unnoticed. a look at emerging technologies every year, experts convened by the world economic forum and scientific american make predictions about the emerging technologies expected to have major social, economic, and environmental impacts worldwide. while some of these technologies have been catapulted into public consciousness and are fully integrated into our lives, others have been slower to gain momentum. in the run-up to the 10th anniversary edition of the top 10 emerging technologies report, launching 16 november, we take a look at some of the technologies from the past nine reports and ask: did the technology change the world, or did it fail to fulfil its potential?
[2] the technology has been around for a while - think about electric gliders for instance - but in the past year innovation has accelerated, driven by a need for the sector to decarbonize.
[3] she says we need to make sure we don’t just innovate, but also scale the innovation and have a healthy supply chain for the technologies that are going to go into that aircraft and that we make sure we approve them, “so when people get on a flight, you have confidence it has been made safe for you to travel in and that you will feel better getting on that plane”.
[4] “the main technology that makes up digital assistants is machine learning around natural language understanding with context and sentiment additive.
[5] cloud computing also needs to be improved to process the conversation, while the internet of things, a network of low-cost sensors which adds another layer of signals, will increase understanding.
[6] there also needs to be further investment in training ai systems for a specific subject matter for increased contextual awareness and accuracy, says velastegui.
[7] genetic engineering we’ve only seen the “tip of the iceberg” in terms of how precise genetic engineering techniques will be able to benefit everything from human health to food security in future. that’s according to feng zhang, professor in neuroscience at the massachusetts institute of technology and one of the pioneers of the crispr-cas9 gene editing technique, which is a tool to fix individual mutations in human dna.
[8] genetic engineering made it onto our 2015 top 10 emerging technology list - and in the intervening years, it has leapt forward, thanks in part to the crispr breakthrough. similar to using the ‘find’ functionality to search for typos in a document, crispr-cas9 works within the chemical environment of cells to find a mutation and help treat a disease, zhang explains.
[9] “biomimetic materials mimic nature and natural systems, which have the ability to sense their environment, adapt, respond and self-repair.
[10] prof al-tabbaa hopes the construction industry will come together to accelerate the adoption of these materials. with a focus on roads, we might see self-healing, self-sensing roads that have additional functionalities of flood alleviation and energy capture, dependent on the materials embedded in them.
[11] systems metabolic engineering featuring on our 2016 list of top 10 emerging technology, systems metabolic engineering (sysme) is a more sustainable approach to producing chemicals needed for fuels and medicine. microorganisms, including bacteria, are genetically engineered to overproduce chemicals like ethanol as part of their metabolic process as they ferment, ‘feeding on’ renewable organic resources, in a safe, sealed environment.
[12] “not only are these fine chemicals replacing petrochemicals, various natural products which are important for human health are being more efficiently produced by fermentation of metabolically engineered microbes, which can replace the tedious and costly process of extracting from plants, insects, or animals.” breakthroughs in genome sequencing, genetic engineering and metabolic flux analysis, which allows a systems-level understanding of microbe metabolism, have enabled advances in sysme, which is good news for the environment.
[13] “as the world tries to move away from using fossil resources to achieve its net-zero goals, the number of bioengineered products produced by microorganisms will continue to increase,” adds the professor. although the large-scale fermentative production of chemicals is not yet viable economically, in the next five to 10 years, the technology has the potential to disrupt the way we produce chemicals and materials, as it incorporates data science, machine learning and automation.
[14] but, he warns, that companies creating these wearables must have very clear privacy terms to maintain trust among consumers. personalized medicine given the poor success rates of treatments for things like cancer and depression, medical professionals have been trying to tailor treatments to individual patients for some time. personalized medicine was one of the top 10 emerging technologies in our 2012 list. a decade on, there is renewed cause for optimism, says dr. elizabeth o’day, ceo and founder of olaris, inc: “in the next 5 to 10 years, we will be able to get the right drug to the right patient at the right time at the right dose and optimize all of these parameters.
[15] “i think we’ll see many governments around the world wanting to establish their own manufacturing capacity and… because you don’t need a large manufacturing facility, it could move to a situation where there are many regional manufacturing centres that have the hardware and what becomes distributed is the software – the genetic code for the next pandemic pathogen or the next chronic target.
Keywords:
[1] founder
[2] technology
[3] research
[4] system
[5] chemical